Document "Consume packages/Install a dependency from a manifest file" (#124)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/consume/manifest-mode.md

  est-mode-msbuild\x64\Debug\manifest-example.exe" "D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\x64-windows\debug\bin"
  "x64\Debug\manifest.ceffc6eb.tlog\manifest-example.write.1u.tlog" "x64\Debug\vcpkg.applocal.log"
  D:\projects\manifest-example\x64\Debug\fmtd.dll
FinalizeBuildStatus:
  (omitted)
Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.vcxproj" (default targets).

Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.sln" (default targets).

Build succeeded.
```

### [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from Visual Studio](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md)

### Step 2.1: Enable user-wide integration (Visual Studio)

To use [vcpkg in your Visual Studio projects](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md) run the
following command:

```Console
vcpkg integrate install
```

This integration method automatically adds vcpkg-installed packages to the project's Include Directories,
Link Directories, and Link Libraries. Additionaly, this creates a post-build action that ensures

> that any required DLLs are copied in the build output folder. This works for all VS2015, VS2017,
> VS2019, and VS2022 projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that any required DLLs are copied in the build output folder. This works for all Visual Studio projects except projects older than Visual Studio 2015.
```

### Step 2.2: Enable vcpkg manifests

By default, manifest mode is disabled in Visual Studio projects. To enable manifests, open the

> project's _Properties_ window and set _Use Vcpkg Manifest_ to _Yes_ in the _vcpkg_ tab.

Reviewer: Do we know whether these italicized terms are translated in different languages in Visual Studio? If so, the code style may be more appropriate here so they don't get translated here.

:::image type="complex" source="../resources/vs-enable-vcpkg-manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a Visual Studio's project Properties window.":::

> Screenshot of a Visual Studio's project properties window. The VCPKG tab is selected and highlighted. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Screenshot of a Visual Studio project properties window. The VCPKG tab is selected and highlighted. The
```

1>Installing vcpkg dependencies to D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\
1>"D:\vcpkg\vcpkg.exe" install  --x-wait-for-lock --triplet "x64-windows" --vcpkg-root "D:\vcpkg\" "--x-manifest-root=D:\projects\manifest-example\" "--x-install-root=D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\"
1>Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...
1>The following packages will be built and installed:
1>    cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
1>    fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
1>    range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
1>  * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
1>  * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
1> (omitted)
1>main.cxx
1>manifest-example.vcxproj -> D:\projects\manifest-example\x64\Debug\manifest-example.exe
1>Done building project "manifest-example.vcxproj".
========== Build: 1 succeeded, 0 failed, 0 up-to-date, 0 skipped ==========
========== Build started at 12:07 PM and took 15.320 seconds ==========
```

### [CMake](#tab/cmake-integration)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from CMake](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md)

### Step 2.1: Create a `CMakeLists.txt` file

> When using CMake, you can take advantage of the automatic integration through the [vcpkg toolchain
> file](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md#cmake_toolchain_file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The vcpkg tool integrates with CMake through the [vcpkg toolchain
file](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md#cmake_toolchain_file).
```

> Let's add the following `CMakeLists.txt` file in the project folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following `CMakeLists.txt` file in the project folder:
```

-- Detecting CXX compile features
-- Detecting CXX compile features - done
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: D:/projects/manifest-example/build
```

### Step 2.3: Build the project (CMake)

Once the configure step is completed, build the project with `cmake --build <build directory>`:

```Console
PS D:\projects\manifest-example> cmake --build build
Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.7.0+b89cb5fde for .NET Framework
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

  Checking Build System
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
  main.cxx
  fibo.vcxproj -> D:\projects\manifest-example\build\Debug\fibo.exe
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
```

### [Manual installation](#tab/manual-installation)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about manually integrating vcpkg in your build system](../users/buildsystems/manual-integration.md)

In a [Developer Command Prompt](/visualstudio/ide/reference/command-prompt-powershell) open to the
project's folder run the `vcpkg install` command.

```Console
PS D:\projects\manifest-example> D:\vcpkg\vcpkg.exe install

> Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...

Reviewer 2: AFAIU `vcpkg install` requires that the user to setup target and host triplet environment variables. Are these variables initialized by a "Developer Command Prompt open to the project's folder"?
(Isn't the default triplet still x86-windows at the moment?)
And manual installation may be relevant for user which do not use Visual Studio, i.e. they do not have [Developer Command Prompt](/visualstudio/ide/reference/command-prompt-powershell).

The manual approach can handle only one active target triplet in `vcpkg_installed`. We regularly see users being surprised by packages being removed when changing the target, so it may deserve a mention.

Additional packages (*) will be modified to complete this operation.
Installing 1/5 vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows...
Installing 2/5 vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows...
Installing 3/5 cxxopts:x64-windows...
Installing 4/5 fmt:x64-windows...
Installing 5/5 range-v3:x64-windows...
Total install time: 48 s
cxxopts provides CMake targets:

    # this is heuristically generated, and may not be correct
    find_package(cxxopts CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE cxxopts::cxxopts)

The package fmt provides CMake targets:

    find_package(fmt CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE fmt::fmt)

    # Or use the header-only version
    find_package(fmt CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE fmt::fmt-header-only)

range-v3 provides CMake targets:

    # this is heuristically generated, and may not be correct
    find_package(range-v3 CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE range-v3::meta range-v3::concepts range-v3::range-v3)
```

Once the command has finished, there will be a new folder named `vcpkg_installed` in your project's
directory containing all the built packages.

---

## Next Steps

> In this tutorial, you installed dependencies for a simple project using a manifest file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you installed dependencies for a simple project using a manifest file.
```

> The next things you may want to try in your projects are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some additional tasks to try:
```

* Install packages for custom platforms using [triplets](../users/triplets.md)
* Lock down your versions for repeatable builds using [versioning](../users/versioning.concepts.md)

> * Reuse binaries across Continuous Integration runs using [binary caching](../users/binarycaching.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reuse binaries across continuous integration runs using [binary caching](../users/binarycaching.md)
```

---
title: Install a dependency from a manifest file
description: Learn to install your project's dependencies with vcpkg by using a manifest file.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 8/10/2023

> ms.prod: vcpkg

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ms.prod: vcpkg
ms.topic: tutorial
```

> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#customer intent: As a <type of user>, I want <what> so that <why>.
---
```
We should include a customer intent line in the metadata

> # Install a dependency from a manifest file (manifest mode)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Tutorial: Install a dependency from a manifest
```

vcpkg has two operation modes: classic mode, and manifest mode. This article describes how to install packages using manifest mode, which is the recommended workflow for most users.

In manifest mode, you declare your project's direct dependencies in a manifest file named
[`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md).

Manifest files have their own `vcpkg_installed` directory where they install their dependencies,
unlike classic mode, where all packages are installed in a common `%VCPKG_ROOT%/installed`
directory. Manifests are suitable for using vcpkg with multiple codebases, as each codebase can have
a different set of dependencies that do not interfere with each other.

Manifest mode is also required to use advanced features like
[versioning](../users/versioning.md) and [custom registries](../users/registries.md).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * [Create a project with a manifest]
> * [Install dependencies]
> * [Build the project]

```

> ## Create your project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Create a project with a manifest
```

For this tutorial, we use the following source file:

`main.cxx`:

:::code language="cxx" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/main.cxx":::

> 
> ## Create the manifest file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

The code references the open-source libraries: `cxxopts`, `fmt`, and `range-v3`; which are all
available in the vcpkg public registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>.

To satisfy these dependencies, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in the project's folder:

`vcpkg.json`:

:::code language="json" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/vcpkg.json":::

You only need to specify your direct dependencies in the `"dependencies"` list. When it runs, vcpkg
resolves and installs any required transitive dependencies.

## Install the dependencies

### [MSBuild](#tab/msbuild)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from MSBuild](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md)

### Enable user-wide integration (MSBuild)

To use [vcpkg in your MSBuild projects](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md) run the
following command:

```Console
vcpkg integrate install
```

> You only need to run the `vcpkg integrate install` command the first time you want to enable MSBuild

Author: ```suggestion
You only need to run the [`vcpkg integrate install`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-install) command the first time you want to enable MSBuild
```

  Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...
  The following packages will be built and installed:
      cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
      fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
      range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
    * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
    * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
  (omitted)
ClCompile:
  (omitted)
Link:
  (omitted)
AppLocalFromInstalled:
  pwsh.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -noprofile -File "D:\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\msbuild\applocal.ps1" "D:\projects\manif
  est-mode-msbuild\x64\Debug\manifest-example.exe" "D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\x64-windows\debug\bin"
  "x64\Debug\manifest.ceffc6eb.tlog\manifest-example.write.1u.tlog" "x64\Debug\vcpkg.applocal.log"
  D:\projects\manifest-example\x64\Debug\fmtd.dll
FinalizeBuildStatus:
  (omitted)
Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.vcxproj" (default targets).

Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.sln" (default targets).

Build succeeded.
```

> ### [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

Author: ```suggestion
### [Visual Studio (MSBuild)](#tab/visual-studio-with-msbuild)
```

-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info - done
-- Check for working CXX compiler: C:/Program Files (x86)/Microsoft Visual Studio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.27.29110/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe - skipped
-- Detecting CXX compile features
-- Detecting CXX compile features - done
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: D:/projects/manifest-example/build
```

### Build the project (CMake)

Once the configure step is completed, build the project with `cmake --build <build directory>`:

```Console
PS D:\projects\manifest-example> cmake --build build
Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.7.0+b89cb5fde for .NET Framework
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

  Checking Build System
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
  main.cxx
  fibo.vcxproj -> D:\projects\manifest-example\build\Debug\fibo.exe
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
```

### [Manual installation](#tab/manual-installation)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about manually integrating vcpkg in your build system](../users/buildsystems/manual-integration.md)

> In a terminal open to the project's folder run the `vcpkg install` command.

Author: ```suggestion
In a terminal, open the project's folder and run the [`vcpkg install`](../commands/install.md) command.
```

---
title: "Tutorial: Install a dependency from a manifest file"
description: Learn to install your projects dependencies with vcpkg by using a manifest file.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 8/10/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
ms.topic: tutorial

> ---

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#CustomerIntent: As a beginner vcpkg user, I want to learn how to install my project dependencies using vcpkg in manifest mode
---
```

# Tutorial: Install a dependency from a manifest file

> vcpkg has two operation modes: classic mode, and manifest mode. This article describes how to install packages using manifest mode, which is the recommended workflow for most users.

Reviewer 4: Should we consider adding a zone group for manifest vs. classic?

Author: I like having the separate articles in this case, it is not a clear cut like it is for OS selection

> vcpkg has two operation modes: classic mode, and manifest mode. This article describes how to install packages using manifest mode, which is the recommended workflow for most users.
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
vcpkg has two operation modes: classic mode and manifest mode. This article describes how to install packages using manifest mode, which is the recommended workflow for most users.

```

In manifest mode, you declare your project's direct dependencies in a manifest file named
[`vcpkg.json`](../reference/vcpkg-json.md).

Manifest files have their own `vcpkg_installed` directory where they install their dependencies,
unlike classic mode, where all packages are installed in a common `%VCPKG_ROOT%/installed`
directory. Manifests are suitable for using vcpkg with multiple codebases, as each codebase can have

> a different set of dependencies that do not interfere with each other.

Reviewer 4: Should we avoid making comparisons between manifest mode and classic mode? I think we should just mention manifest-related topics. If we decide to use a zone group to differentiate between the both we can just !include the manifest article.

Manifest mode is also required to use advanced features like
[versioning](../users/versioning.md) and [custom registries](../users/registries.md).

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * [Create a project with a manifest]
> * [Install dependencies]
> * [Build the project]

> ## Create a project with a manifest

Reviewer 4: We should include a `## Prerequisites`  section before this to follow the tutorial guidelines.

> ## Create a project with a manifest

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## 1 - Create a manifest
```

Same for the rest of the h2 steps.

For this tutorial, we use the following source file:

`main.cxx`:

:::code language="cxx" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/main.cxx":::

The code references the open-source libraries: `cxxopts`, `fmt`, and `range-v3`; which are all
available in the vcpkg public registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>.

To satisfy these dependencies, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in the project's folder:

`vcpkg.json`:

:::code language="json" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/vcpkg.json":::

You only need to specify your direct dependencies in the `"dependencies"` list. When it runs, vcpkg
resolves and installs any required transitive dependencies.

## Install the dependencies

> ### [MSBuild](#tab/msbuild)

Reviewer 4: I think these h3's need to be enumerated steps instead of headers. i.e., instead of ### description-of-step  it should be 1. desctiption-of-step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from MSBuild](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md)

> ### Enable user-wide integration (MSBuild)

Reviewer 4: I think some of these h3's should be promoted to h2's with steps and any relevant sub-steps should be enumerated and nested within the h2 section.

To use [vcpkg in your MSBuild projects](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md) run the
following command:

```Console
vcpkg integrate install
```

You only need to run the [`vcpkg integrate install`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-install)
command the first time you want to enable MSBuild integration. This enables MSBuild integration for all
your existing and future projects. Use [`vcpkg integrate remove`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-remove)
to remove MSBuild system-wide integration.

This integration method automatically adds vcpkg-installed packages to the following project properties:
Include Directories, Link Directories, and Link Libraries. Additionally, this creates a post-build action

> that ensures that any required DLLs are copied in the build output folder. This works for all solutions and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that ensures that any required DLLs are copied into the build output folder. This works for all solutions and
```

projects using VS2015 or newer.

> ### Build the project (MSBuild)

Reviewer 4: Should we consider adding zone group for buildsystems? I.e., msbuild, cmake, meson, etc? It might not be necessary.

Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.vcxproj" (default targets).

Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.sln" (default targets).

Build succeeded.
```

### [Visual Studio (MSBuild)](#tab/visual-studio-with-msbuild)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from Visual Studio](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md)

### Enable user-wide integration (Visual Studio)

To use [vcpkg in your Visual Studio projects](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md) run the
following command:

```Console
vcpkg integrate install
```

You only need to run the [`vcpkg integrate install`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-install)
command the first time you want to enable MSBuild integration. This enables MSBuild integration for all
your existing and future projects. Use [`vcpkg integrate remove`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-remove)
to remove MSBuild system-wide integration.

This integration method automatically adds vcpkg-installed packages to the following project properties:
Include Directories, Link Directories, and Link Libraries. Additionally, this creates a post-build action

> that ensures that any required DLLs are copied in the build output folder. This works for all solutions and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that ensures that any required DLLs are copied into the build output folder. This works for all solutions and
```

This integration method automatically adds vcpkg-installed packages to the following project properties:
`Include Directories`, `Link Directories`, and `Link Libraries`. Additionally, this creates a post-build action
that ensures that any required DLLs are copied into the build output folder. This works for all solutions and
projects using Visual Studio 2015 or newer.

### [CMake](#tab/cmake)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from CMake](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md)

To use [vcpkg in your CMake projects](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md), you need to set the
`CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` variable to use vcpkg's CMake toolchain file. The vcpkg toolchain is in
`%VCPKG_ROOT%/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake`, where `%VCPKG_ROOT%` is your vcpkg installation path.

To set the toolchain file use any of these methods:

* Set the `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` in your CMakePresets.json file.
* Pass `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<path/to/vcpkg>/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake` as a parameter in your
CMake configure call.
* Set the `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` CMake variable before the first call to `project()` in your
`CMakeLists.txt` file.

---

> ## 3 - Install dependencies

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## 3 - Install dependencies (non CMake or MSBuild)
```

I know you said this in the first sentence but I think it'll help a user 'scanning' the document to see they can probably skip it in the doc.

It might also be good to find a way to reorder this such that people have to skip over msbuild or cmake to get here since we expect those two to be more common (by effectively combining step 3 and 4). But that's extreme nitpick territory.

Author: I'll split this document into separate workflows (projects with integration vs projects without it) in a future PR

> If you're using CMake or MSBuild and followed the previous step, you can skip ahead to the next step:

Reviewer 5: Do we have a convention when referring to CMake and MSBuild as to which goes first? This line puts CMake first but the document puts MSBuild first....

[4 - Build the project].

If you're using a different build system or want to install the dependencies manually, all you need to do
is run `vcpkg install` in the directory containing your manifest file.

```console

> PS D:\projects\manifest-example> vcpkg install

Reviewer 5: I think it would be good to show the manifest used here so that the user understands why we picked cxxopts/fmt/range-v3, such as by adding a `type vcpkg.json` or `cat vcpkg.json` in front of this.

[versioning](../users/versioning.md) and [custom registries](../users/registries.md).

In this tutorial, you learn how to:

> [!div class="checklist"]
> * [1 - Create a project with a manifest]
> * [2 - Integrate vcpkg with your buildsystem]
> * [3 - Install the manifest dependencies]
> * [4 - Build the project]

## Prerequisites

* vcpkg
* A terminal
* A code editor
* A C++ compiler
* (Optional) CMake or MSBuild

## 1 - Create a project with a manifest

In a new folder, create a source file named `main.cxx` with these contents:

:::code language="cxx" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/main.cxx":::

The code references the open-source libraries: `cxxopts`, `fmt`, and `range-v3`; which are all
available in the vcpkg public registry at <https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>.

To declare these dependencies, create a file named `vcpkg.json` in the project's folder:

`vcpkg.json`:

:::code language="json" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/vcpkg.json":::

You only need to specify your direct dependencies in the `"dependencies"` list. When it runs, vcpkg
resolves and installs any required transitive dependencies.

> ## 2 - Integrate vcpkg with your buildsystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2 - Integrate vcpkg with your build system
```

> In this step we show you how to integrate vcpkg with CMake or MSBuild, so that your project dependencies get
> automatically installed whenever you build the project. If you're using a different build system skip to the
> next step: [3 - Install the manifest dependencies].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step we show you how to integrate vcpkg with CMake or MSBuild, so that your project dependencies get automatically installed or restored whenever you build the project. 

If you're using a different build system, skip to the next step: [3 - Install the manifest dependencies].
```

### [MSBuild](#tab/msbuild)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from MSBuild](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md)

To use [vcpkg in your MSBuild projects](../users/buildsystems/msbuild-integration.md), run the
following command:

```Console
vcpkg integrate install
```

You only need to run the [`vcpkg integrate install`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-install)
command the first time you want to enable MSBuild integration. This enables MSBuild integration for all
your existing and future projects. Use [`vcpkg integrate remove`](../commands/integrate.md#vcpkg-integrate-remove)
to remove MSBuild system-wide integration.

This integration method automatically adds vcpkg-installed packages to the following project properties:
Include Directories, Link Directories, and Link Libraries. Additionally, this creates a post-build action
that ensures that any required DLLs are copied into the build output folder. This works for all solutions and
projects using VS2015 or newer.

### [CMake](#tab/cmake)

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]

> > [Lear more about using vcpkg from CMake](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Learn more about using vcpkg from CMake](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md)
```

To use [vcpkg in your CMake projects](../users/buildsystems/cmake-integration.md), you need to set the
`CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` variable to use vcpkg's CMake toolchain file. The vcpkg toolchain is in

> `%VCPKG_ROOT%/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake`, where `%VCPKG_ROOT%` is your vcpkg's installation path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`%VCPKG_ROOT%/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake`, where `%VCPKG_ROOT%` is your vcpkg installation path.
```

To set the toolchain file use any of these methods:

* Set the `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` in your CMakePresets.json file.
* Pass `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<path/to/vcpkg>/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake` as a parameter in your
CMake configure call.
* Set the `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` CMake variable before the first call to `project()` in your
`CMakeLists.txt` file.

---

> ## 3 - Install the manifest dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3 - Install dependencies
```

If you're using CMake or MSBuild and followed the previous step, you can skip ahead to the next step:
[4 - Build the project].

If you're using a different build system or want to install the dependencies manually, all you need to do

> is run the `vcpkg install` command in the directory containing your manifest file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is run `vcpkg install` in the directory containing your manifest file.
```

    cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
    fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
    range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
  * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
  * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
Additional packages (*) will be modified to complete this operation.
Installing 1/5 vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows...
Installing 2/5 vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows...
Installing 3/5 cxxopts:x64-windows...
Installing 4/5 fmt:x64-windows...
Installing 5/5 range-v3:x64-windows...
Total install time: 48 s
cxxopts provides CMake targets:

    # this is heuristically generated, and may not be correct
    find_package(cxxopts CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE cxxopts::cxxopts)

The package fmt provides CMake targets:

    find_package(fmt CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE fmt::fmt)

    # Or use the header-only version
    find_package(fmt CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE fmt::fmt-header-only)

range-v3 provides CMake targets:

    # this is heuristically generated, and may not be correct
    find_package(range-v3 CONFIG REQUIRED)
    target_link_libraries(main PRIVATE range-v3::meta range-v3::concepts range-v3::range-v3)
```

> Once the command has finished, all built packages are installed in a `vcpkg_installed` in the
> directory containing the manifest file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the command has finished running, all built packages will be present in a `vcpkg_installed` directory. The specific location of this directory depends on your build system, but will always be present at the same path or a sub-directory of the path where your `vcpkg.json` file is located. 
```

## 4 - Build the project

### [MSBuild](#tab/build-MSBuild)

By default, manifest mode is disabled in MSBuild projects.

To enable manifests in your project, set the `VcpkgEnableManifest` property in your `.vcxproj` file:
  
```xml
<PropertyGroup Label="Vcpkg">
  <VcpkgEnableManifest>true</VcpkgEnableManifest>
</PropertyGroup>
```

> Alternatively you can enable manifest mode in your MSBuild call by passing `msbuild /p:VcpkgEnableManifest=true` as a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can enable manifest mode in your MSBuild call by passing `msbuild /p:VcpkgEnableManifest=true` as a parameter.
```

  Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...
  The following packages will be built and installed:
      cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
      fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
      range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
    * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
    * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
  (omitted)
ClCompile:
  (omitted)
Link:
  (omitted)
AppLocalFromInstalled:
  pwsh.exe -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -noprofile -File "D:\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\msbuild\applocal.ps1" "D:\projects\manif
  est-mode-msbuild\x64\Debug\manifest-example.exe" "D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\x64-windows\debug\bin"
  "x64\Debug\manifest.ceffc6eb.tlog\manifest-example.write.1u.tlog" "x64\Debug\vcpkg.applocal.log"
  D:\projects\manifest-example\x64\Debug\fmtd.dll
FinalizeBuildStatus:
  (omitted)
Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.vcxproj" (default targets).

Done Building Project "D:\projects\manifest-example\manifest-example.sln" (default targets).

Build succeeded.
```

> ### [Visual Studio](#tab/build-visual-studio)

Reviewer: This will need a "Visual Studio (CMake)" tab too, and this one should be named "Visual Studio (MSBuild)".

Author: I would suggest adding that in an update to this article

> By default, manifest mode is disabled in Visual Studio projects. To enable manifests, open the
> project's Properties window and set `Use Vcpkg Manifest` to "Yes" in the vcpkg tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, manifest mode is disabled in Visual Studio projects. To enable manifests, right-click your project in **Solution Explorer**, select **Properties**, select the **vcpkg** tab on the left, and set `Use Vcpkg Manifest` to **Yes**.
```

:::image type="complex" source="../resources/vs-enable-vcpkg-manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a Visual Studio's project Properties window.":::

> Screenshot of a Visual Studio project properties window. The VCPKG tab is selected and highlighted. The
> option named "use VCPKG manifest" is highlighted with its value set to "Yes".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Screenshot of a Visual Studio project properties window. The vcpkg tab is selected and highlighted. The
option named "Use Vcpkg Manifest" is highlighted with its value set to "Yes".
```

Author: The capitalization here was deliberate to help screen readers pronounce vcpkg correctly as per the guidelines.

:::image-end:::

> Build the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the project by right-clicking it in **Solution Explorer** and selecting **Build**.
```

```Console
Build started...
1>------ Build started: Project: manifest-example, Configuration: Debug x64 ------
1>Installing vcpkg dependencies to D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\
1>"D:\vcpkg\vcpkg.exe" install  --x-wait-for-lock --triplet "x64-windows" --vcpkg-root "D:\vcpkg\" "--x-manifest-root=D:\projects\manifest-example\" "--x-install-root=D:\projects\manifest-example\vcpkg_installed\x64-windows\"
1>Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...
1>The following packages will be built and installed:
1>    cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
1>    fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
1>    range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
1>  * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
1>  * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
1> (omitted)
1>main.cxx
1>manifest-example.vcxproj -> D:\projects\manifest-example\x64\Debug\manifest-example.exe
1>Done building project "manifest-example.vcxproj".
========== Build: 1 succeeded, 0 failed, 0 up-to-date, 0 skipped ==========
========== Build started at 12:07 PM and took 15.320 seconds ==========
```

### [CMake](#tab/build-cmake)

> 1 - Create a CMakeLists.txt file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1 - Create a CMakeLists.txt file
```

Add the following `CMakeLists.txt` file in the project folder:

`CMakeLists.txt`:

:::code language="cmake" source="../examples/snippets/manifest-mode-cmake/CMakeLists.txt":::

> 2 - Configure your CMake project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2 - Configure your CMake project
```

> Run the following command: `cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=%VCPKG_ROOT%\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake`,
> substitute `%VCPKG_ROOT%` with your vcpkg installation path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command: `cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=%VCPKG_ROOT%\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake`, but
substitute `%VCPKG_ROOT%` with your vcpkg installation path.
```

Notice how the project's dependencies are automatically installed while configuring the project.

```
PS D:\projects\manifest-example> cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=D:\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake
-- Running vcpkg install
Detecting compiler hash for triplet x64-windows...
The following packages will be built and installed:
    cxxopts:x64-windows -> 3.1.1
    fmt:x64-windows -> 10.0.0
    range-v3:x64-windows -> 0.12.0#1
  * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows -> 2023-05-04
  * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows -> 2022-02-06#1
<omitted output>
-- Running vcpkg install - done
-- Selecting Windows SDK version 10.0.18362.0 to target Windows 10.0.19041.
-- The CXX compiler identification is MSVC 19.27.29111.0
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info
-- Detecting CXX compiler ABI info - done
-- Check for working CXX compiler: C:/Program Files (x86)/Microsoft Visual Studio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.27.29110/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe - skipped
-- Detecting CXX compile features
-- Detecting CXX compile features - done
-- Configuring done
-- Generating done
-- Build files have been written to: D:/projects/manifest-example/build
```

> 3 - Build the CMake project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 3 - Build the CMake project
```

Run the following command to build the project: `cmake --build build`:

```Console
PS D:\projects\manifest-example> cmake --build build
Microsoft (R) Build Engine version 16.7.0+b89cb5fde for .NET Framework
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

  Checking Build System
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
  main.cxx
  fibo.vcxproj -> D:\projects\manifest-example\build\Debug\fibo.exe
  Building Custom Rule D:\projects\manifest-example\CMakeLists.txt
```

---

## Next Steps

In this guide, you installed dependencies for a simple project using a manifest file.

Here are some additional tasks to try next:

> * Install packages for custom platforms using [triplets](../users/triplets.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install packages for custom platforms, compilers, or build architectures using [triplets](../users/triplets.md)
```

* Lock down your versions for repeatable builds using [versioning](../users/versioning.concepts.md)

> * Reuse binaries across continuous integration runs using [binary caching](../users/binarycaching.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reuse binaries across local or continuous integration runs using [binary caching](../users/binarycaching.md)
```

* Manage your private libraries using custom [registries](../maintainers/registries.md)

[1 - Create a project with a manifest]: #1---create-a-project-with-a-manifest

> [2 - Integrate vcpkg with your buildsystem]: #2---integrate-vcpkg-with-your-buildsystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[2 - Integrate vcpkg with your build system]: #2---integrate-vcpkg-with-your-buildsystem
```

> [3 - Install the manifest dependencies]: #3---install-the-manifest-dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[3 - Install dependencies]: #3---install-the-manifest-dependencies
```
